>> Brian Holt: So here's the thought
process I need you work through in
your head.
We're gonna be running our
React application in Node.
So anything that references window
doesn't work in Node, because window
doesn't exist, right, it's not in
a browser so you can't reference window.
So for example, if I come in here
to App.js, down here at the bottom,
document, which is on window,
doesn't exist.
There´s no document in the Node setting.
So we need to split this out for code
that will only run in the browser, and
then everything else will be run in Node,
for the first time for
the first render, right?
Cuz what we're gonna to do now is,
we are going to render our entire React
application out to static HTML and
serve that on the first request so
that the user immediately sees something,
right?
The first render will already be done, and
then React downloads, and bootstraps, and
does all that kind of stuff.
It will just take over
the existing markup.
This is called server-side rendering,
or SSR often for short, or universal
rendering, or isomorphic rendering,
there's a bunch of dumb names for it.
It's just taking React and
rendering a node,
it's not anything more fancy than that.
>> Brian Holt: I hate dumb
computer science, stupid.
Isomorphic, that's just the most
pretentious thing I've ever heard.
[LAUGH] So let's get into this.
So I'm gonna come in here and I'm gonna
create a new file here inside of,
where do I put it?
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
let's do this first.
Inside of source,
I'm gonna create a new file and
I'm gonna call it, ClientApp.js.
So inside ClientApp is where we're
gonna do all of our browser stuff, so
ClientApp will not be run inside of Node.
So this will actually do the rendering
to the DOM, and anything that you need,
excuse me,
anything that you need to do that's
browser-specific can be done in here.
And a good example of what that might
be would be your analytics, right?
You're not gonna fire analytics for
the browser inside of Node, so
this could be done here just fine.
For our purposes, we're just going
to import React from 'react';.
>> Brian Holt: import ,
>> Brian Holt: Sorry,
import  from 'react-dom'.
>> Brian Holt: And
import the App from ' ./' App.
And actually,
we're not gonna use render here.
We had been previously using render
to render to the DOM, right, but
we're actually gonna use
something called hydrate.
>> Brian Holt: So what's different
between hydrate and render?
hydrate is different,
because what hydrate does is it looks for
existing markup to take over an existing
application, whereas render is gonna say,
this is blank,
replace everything inside of there.
This is new to React 16,
previously it was render in both cases.
So that's why we're gonna use hydrate now.
So hydrate,
>> Brian Holt: (<App />,
document.getElementById("root"));.
>> Brian Holt: So at ./App.
>> Brian Holt: And this will get us
bootstrapped on the client, right?
Now, this is going to be our entry
point to the application, not App.
App is gonna just be another
component that exports a module.
So we actually need to go into index.html.
Here it says,
script equals src="./App.js".
We're actually gonna
make this ClientApp.js,
cuz this is now the entry
point to our application.
>> Brian Holt: And if you remember,
this is what Parcel's reading from to
figure out where to start, so
that's what that's important.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now I need you to go to App.js.
Down here at the bottom we have this
ReactDOM.render business down here.
Not gonna do that anymore, I'm just
gonna say, export default App;, and
this will be pulled into ClientApp for
the rendering process.
>> Brian Holt: So you can come up
here as well and delete ReactDOM,
cuz we're not using that anymore.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: One more thing that we
have to do, let's go into Modal.js.
>> Brian Holt: This is where
we're doing the portal rendering.
We have a problem here,
because inside of Modal we're
referencing document again, right?
So if we try and import Modal.js
we're gonna crash the node, right?
Because it's referencing
document.getElementById(), so
how are we gonna get around that?
>> Brian Holt: It's actually not too bad.
We're gonna move this, not to the
constructor but into componentDidMount().
>> Brian Holt: And rather than saying,
const modal = that, we're gonna say,
this.modalRoot = that.
>> Brian Holt: And
this.modalRoot.appendChild(this.el).
And again, this constructor still
might be run inside of React.
We don't want that to crash if
you ever construct the Modal, so
let's just move this from the constructor
into componentDidMount() as well.
>> Brian Holt: Like that.
And here, now this is just this,
oops, excuse me, this.modalRoot.
Now, why did this fix everything?
Well, when is componentDidMount() run?
When it actually enters the DOM for
the first time.
So if you think about it, it's never
going to enter the DOM in Node, right?
It's gonna go through the first render
process but it doesn't ever actually enter
the DOM, so anything that you do
inside of componentDidMount(),
you're guaranteed to be
in the browser context.
So anything you need to do browser-based,
you can throw it into
componentDidMount() and that's fine.